---
title: 'My criteria for an MBA Degree'
date: 2019-07-27 00:00:00
featured_image: '/images/latest/20190727_01.jpg'
excerpt: What mindset should you have and what questions should you be asking yourself before you pursuit a Masters of Business degree?
---

### What's was my mindset?
I had taken the GMAT's about 8 years ago and scored well enough for USC Marshall. I did not pursue an MBA then because the cost was prohibitive for someone with no real plans for what to do with the degree. If I had scored in the typical range for Stanford or Berkeley, I would have tried applying to those schools. I had no clue, I was still looking for something.

> Typically an MBA is only as good as the use cases it is applied towards...unless you get into a top 5 MBA program

If you're interested in solving business problems just go even if you don't have a plan. Proximity to the talent pool in a top program and ancillary programs makes for an amazing learning experience.

### What was I hoping to achieve with an MBA?
Top thoughts swirling through my head:
1. Entrepreneurship!
2. Insurance policy
3. Move up the corporate management ladder?

Only in the last few years had I developed some solid direction in life (Marriage helps with that too). Starting my own company has been a goal of mine. It's the reason I moved into technical product and also the reason I joined this MBA program. I'm also a risk-adverse person so it also doubles as an insurance policy in case I pivot from #1. Moving up the corporate ladder isn't a goal of mine but is a possible consequence of #2.   

### What programs did I explore?

| Program Type | Pros | Cons |
|--------------|------|------|
| Online MBA | Low-cost option<br>Flexibility	|	Little physical face-time with others for networking<br>Motivation |
| Full-time MBA | High level of immersion and learning | High CapEx<br>High opportunity cost from no job |
| Part-time MBA | Medium level immersion and learning<br>Continue making money at your day job | Medium CapEx cost |
| Incubator (Full-time) | High level of immersion and learning<br>Funded seed round | Not everyone is accepted into the program<br>Need to quit full-time job<br>Lack of certification |
| Start a company today	| Low-cost option<br>Flexibility of time | Support system is dependent on your personal network<br>Motivation |

Rankings of schools help to determine the quality of the faculty, curriculum & future cohort. The opinion of those whom have worked in startups extensively tend to think an MBA degree's utility is minimal. For those whom have worked the majority of their career in large or medium sized company will benefit much more from an MBA program. You can see from the last option, "Start a company today" (leap of faith) without any guardrails is also the most ambiguous and scary.

| Program | Top 5 | Top 15 | Entrepreneurship? | Length of Program | Distance from Home |
|---------|-------|--------|-------------------|-------------------|--------------------|
| Stanford (Full-time MBA) | Y	|	Y |	Y	|	24 months | 21 miles |
| UC Berkeley (Part-time MBA) | Y | Y | Y | 24 months | 50 miles |
| SCU (Part-time MBA) | N | Y | Y | 18 months | 6 miles |
| Y-Combinator (Full-time) | N/A | N/A | Y | 3 months | 51 miles |
| Start a company today	| N/A | N/A | Y | Depends | Depends |

### What's the cost?

| Program |	Tuition Cost |
|---------|--------------|
| Stanford (Full-time MBA) | $146k |
| UC Berkeley (Part-time MBA) | $141k |
| SCU (Part-time MBA)	| $100k |
| Y-Combinator (Full-time)| $120k seed round for 10% of your company |
| Start a company today	| Depends |

### What's the ROI?
1. A degree from an recognized establishment (worth more than people might think)
2. Number of contacts added to your network (a better metric would be number of contacts utilized but hard to measure that today)
3. Start a company within 2 years of graduation

These are the ROI metrics I'll be keeping track of. Someone looking to move up the corporate ladder might be looking at % increase in base salary over the next 2 years.

### Closing thoughts
I chose the Executive MBA program at SCU because:
1. It's ranked #13 in the nation for the program.
2. The faculty and cohort are all Silicon Valley residents (think network effects).
3. It's 50% cheaper compared to the top ranked programs.
4. My opportunity cost is mitigated since I'll still be working.
5. Its a 10 minute drive from home (not to be underestimated).

An MBA is not a track career since your ROI and career path are very dependent on what you're looking for and how smart you grind.

I would spend a lot of time doing some soul-searching and figure out what your goals are. Where do you want to be in 5 years? Do you have the money to spend for an institutional education? Or maybe join an incubator or startup or start your own business to get straight to the point. Good luck!
